Popp: So that was a combat
machine from the Underworld...
and Killvearn used
it to drag master Avan
into another dimension?
Mystvearn: With a Judge
presiding over the duel,
they can't be interrupted.
Your master will
have to fend for himself.
They'll stay in that realm until
one of them defeats the other.
The Judge will then
dispose of the loser,
and transport the victor
back to this world.
After that, it will
self-destruct.
What do we have to do?
There must be a way -
either to get him out,
or to go in after him...
So tell us.
Mystvearn: [chuckling]
I suppose anything's possible,
but even if I knew
such a thing...
Do you really think
I'd tell you?
Dai: Yeah, I thought
you might say that.
So if you know...
We're going to have to
force it out of you.
I hope you're ready...
'Cause I'm not holding back.
Leona: Dai. Hang on.
He's only taunting you.
Think about it.
Considering
everything he just said,
I don't see how
we could get him out.
Nothing escapes a Judge...
not even Master Avan.
I've read about
these machines.
They've been used
to settle disputes
in the Underworld
since ancient times.
The whole point is to
keep the outside world
from getting in the way.
And so that means...
He's pretending to know
so you'll fight him.
It gives him a chance
to do some damage.
So that by the time
you face King Vearn,
you're already exhausted.
That way, even
if Mystvearn loses,
he'll still have won his king
the upper hand
for the final battle.
We can't afford to
fall for another trick.
Master Avan can
handle himself.
We need to stay
focused and get Dai to
the Dark King's inner
sanctum as soon as we can.
Maam: Leona...
that's pretty cold...
Maam's got a point.
I mean, I know everything you're
saying is right. But, I...
With Master Avan in danger,
we can't just walk away.
How can you expect us to
abandon him like that?
But, Maam - we...
Dai [thought]:
They're both right.
Besides, it's not
like Mystvearn is
just gonna let us
run away from here.
Mystvearn: [chuckling]
I'd expect nothing less
from the Disciples of Avan.
Now, shall we begin?
Wait!
Dai, don't do this!
[roaring]
Wait - isn't that...
That's one of Master
Avan's Feathers!
L-Leona?
I don't get it. Why does
the Princess have those?
They're Master's.
Killvearn: You should know
better than to underestimate me.
Did you honestly believe I was
going to let you beat me twice?
I had such high
hopes for you...
But now, it all
comes to an end!
Killvearn: Ah,
the mighty Avan Strash,
from the creator himself.
Judge: Compiling results...
Avan's attack yields
seventy-eight
damage to Killvearn.
Killvearn: Seventy-eight?
That much damage
from a single scratch?
Then, when we first fought...
That's right.
If I had really wanted to,
I could've done a
lot worse than just
damaging your mask back there.
Avan: Perhaps it
looked like mercy,
but it was really
a matter of strategy.
First of all, I didn't want
to expend all of my energy
until I knew the others could
reach the inner sanctum.
And secondly,
I wanted to make sure that
you wouldn't stop them.
So I needed your anger
directed at me - and me alone.
Avan: I may be trapped
in here, but you are too.
Exactly as I intended.
It was you who
underestimated me.
I can stay in here
fighting you for eternity,
if I have to.
And even if you beat me,
it won't change what
Dai and the others
can accomplish in
the meantime.
In any case,
I've already appointed my
successor and told her my plan.
Now that we're in here,
she'll know it's
time to put it in motion.
Killvearn:
Your successor, huh?
And who would that be?
The only one who's able
to rally the entire group,
and unite them under the banner
of justice and righteousness...
is you, Your Highness.
You were born to lead.
Avan: Leona, I leave it to you.
Leona: Listen up, everyone.
Master Avan was planning
for this to happen.
He gave me his
feathers and told me
to take over if
he was captured...
To lead his disciples
all the way to victory,
no matter the cost.
So in the name of
the great Hero Avan,
to defend the surface world
and fight for justice...
I, Princess Leona, am taking
command of this party.
I hereby order all of you...
to fight on for the Hero!
Avan: Yes, exactly. All of
you must fight for the Hero.
Uh... Okay, but,
w-what does that mean?
It all comes down to Dai.
If I'm taken captive,
the clock starts ticking.
From that moment forth,
everything rests on getting
Dai to Vearn's sanctum
with as much strength and
stamina as he can muster.
He's going to need it.
You and the remaining party
members will have to focus
all of your efforts on
achieving this single goal.
It's likely
that the Dark King
possesses power beyond
our imaginations...
A full-powered strike
from the Hero's blade
is our surest
weapon against him.
Understand?
I've seen it work before.
In the old days,
when I faced Hadlar,
my friends did
everything they could
to keep the path clear
while I made my way
to the Dark Lord's chambers.
Roka: Forget about me,
Avan. Go, now!
Young Leira:
We'll fend them off.
Good luck to you, my friend.
Matoriv: Enough chit-chat.
Go demolish that Dark Lord.
Avan: My disciples have
some of the kindest hearts
I've ever encountered.
It's a wonderful quality
to find in a person.
But we're at war,
and war can be cruel.
Make no mistake,
there will be times
ahead that seem hopeless,
but you'll have to
wipe away your tears
and focus on
achieving the victory.
When it's time,
it's your job to
keep everyone moving.
Princess...
I know that you
can achieve this.
You have that strength.
Only me? Are you... sure?
Are you surprised?
You've proven to have
a firm belief in justice.
Not to mention, you certainly
have experience leading.
You'll have what it takes
to make the hard decisions.
Even though occasionally you'll
be at odds with your friends.
You can do what must be done.
You can lead people down
that difficult path.
And as if that weren't enough,
you're also very brave.
I'd follow someone like
that, wouldn't you?
So, take these feathers.
If we're cornered by
another powerful enemy
before we reach the Dark King,
I'll fend them
off the same way that
Hyunckel did on our way in.
Avan: I doubt
they'll question it,
but if Popp gets excited,
you can show him the Feathers
as a token of my faith in you.
I'm only trying
to be prepared.
And I'm sorry. I know
it's a rather big favor.
Leona: No, I... I'm relieved.
Honestly?
For a second there,
I thought that maybe
you were planning to
sacrifice yourself
for Dai again.
Sacrifice?
Of course not, Your Highness!
I merely brought you along
because I thought you'd prefer
to have this
conversation in private.
I'll tell you this, I'm not
in any rush to die again,
not for a long while.
And if you want proof of that,
I only gave you
half of my feathers.
Just enough to be ready
for whatever happens.
Sacrifice-
[laughing]
My apologies. I didn't mean
to worry you like that.
Obviously, there's still a
large amount of risk involved.
Rest assured... I don't
plan on going anywhere.
Leona: If I'm going to risk
everything there is for victory,
it will be "for the Hero."
That right?
Avan: Come along.
No time to waste.
I'll teach you how to deactivate
magical traps along the way.
Doesn't that sound like fun?
Leona: Does it?
So, you see...
Master didn't
give me these...
just to use as
weapons in battle.
He left them to me as
a beacon of hope,
a torch to carry as I lead
the Disciples of Justice.
Avan fights on for
Dai even as we speak.
Now it's time for us
to fight along with him.
Dai [thought]: Master is...
Everyone is...
fighting for me?
Maam [thought]: Mom, Dad,
and Uncle Matoriv...
They all worked
together to help
Master Avan get
to Lord Hadlar;
they didn't
face him themselves.
We need to keep
Mystvearn busy.
Popp [thought]: That
means splitting up...
If we want to call
ourselves the Hero's Party,
it's a good idea to
take notes from the last one.
But if we don't take our shot,
it means Master Avan's
fighting for nothing right now.
Mystvearn: You can shout
anything you like,
Your Highness...
This Hero stays right here.
You okay, Popp?
Popp: Oh, I'm just peachy.
Get going. I'll hold him off!
No, but-
Yeah, yeah.
I might be a little outmatched
here, but I'll do what I can.
You know that
I'm stubborn enough
to punch above my weight.
I may not be as good
as Avan or Matoriv,
but I know I can at least
do what Hyunckel did, right?
I've got my own
reasons for doing it.
Now get out of here.
Oh, come on!
You think I don't see
what you're up to?
If you want me to fall in
love with you, be yourself,
don't start trying
to act like Hyunckel.
I wasn't!
Ugh, just save it for later.
You want to impress me?
Show me what you're made of!
Popp [thought]: Let's think.
Mystvearn can deflect spells
that come at him
from straight on.
But maybe...
if I have Maam backing me
up with her strength...
Alright. You're lucky I
need your help, you know.
A guy can only be
belittled so many times.
I guess that settles it.
Maam and I will stay
and handle conehead here.
You two go ahead with Dai,
and make sure he doesn't
do anything stupid.
You heard him.
Dai [thought]: Master,
Popp, and Maam are
all putting themselves on the
line so that I can keep going.
I can't let them down.
Well, then...
Looks like it's now or
never you guys. You ready?
King Vearn is waiting.
Mystvearn: Not so fast, Dai.
Are you certain?
If you leave
your friends now,
it could be the last
time you ever see each other.
You won't be able
to defend them from me.
Mystvearn: Do you think
it will be worth it?
Don't listen to this joker.
After coming all this way
I think we can take care
of ourselves. Alright?
Leona? I hope you
can forgive me.
I was quick to judge.
Try to keep Dai out of
trouble for me, will you?
We're off.
Oh... R-Right.
Mystvearn: Go ahead, then.
You won't get very far
before your friends' screams
halt you in your tracks.
Then, you'll come
straight back to me.
[chuckle]
And now...
let's show him the combined
strength of the lovers-to-be,
shall we, darling?
But first...
Kiss for good luck?
You have gotten
way ahead of yourself.
Eyes forward, dummy.
It sounds like Popp and Maam are
starting to work things out.
They make a nice item,
don't you think?
I wouldn't worry about them.
It's nothing.
Dai [thought]:
I wouldn't be worried
if they were facing
any normal enemy.
But this is Mystvearn,
the last pillar of
the Dark King's defenses.
Don't you worry.
The two of us can still
give you plenty of fight.
You'll regret this.
Hey, by the way,
what's the plan?
You get him distracted and
I'll take care of the rest.
Okay, I see how it is.
Still don't think
I'm strong enough, huh?
You sure are a
tough one to please.
It's not a
question of strength.
If you cast Medroa, I doubt
he could deflect it...
But if the Mirror of Shahal
could, you never know.
It's better not to risk it.
More importantly, I'm pretty
sure if I use my Refractor Fist,
a direct hit will
level enough damage
to take him down,
once and for all.
Wait - Refractor Fist?
Maam: Underneath
Mystvearn's cloak,
I don't know if it
was human or Darkling,
but I saw a face like ours.
That means he's not just some
being made out of evil energy...
but a living thing
made of flesh and bone.
I could be wrong, but I
think without that mask,
his true form is vulnerable.
Sounds easy enough.
Okay. That's a plan.
I'll conjure some spells
to keep him busy...
Maam: And I'll tear
off his cloak,
then hit him with
my Refractor Fist.
Let's get it right
the first time.
Loud and clear.
It's simple but effective -
I betcha he won't
see this one coming.
Time for payback.
Mystvearn: [chuckling]
Do you really think
you're in control?
You ignorant little fools.
I could easily go
after your friend,
but I gave you my
word that the White Garden
would be your grave.
It's the only place
to bury a Hero.
I'll simply persuade
him to return...
Once he hears you
both crying for help,
I'm sure he'll come running.
Save it, pal.
Yeah, there's still a long
way to go between now and then.
You may be the strongest
soldier the Dark Army's got,
and you sure are clever...
But no matter
what, you won't-
Mystvearn: "...win so easily.
We'll hold out,
and Dai will prevail."
Something along those lines?
Mystvearn: [chuckling]
Now you're the
ones making me laugh.
Perhaps someone of Lon Beruk's
ability could succeed...
But you two barely even
serve as a distraction.
This is my prediction:
I'm going to have you
both in a whimpering heap
without taking a single step.
I'll keep you alive just long
enough to lure Dai back here...
And do away with all
of you in one fell swoop.
You've thought it all through.
The only problem is, things
have a way of rarely going...
exactly as you plan them!
Mystvearn: Dark
Puppetry Aura Hand!
Not this time.
I'm getting tired of
your old parlor tricks.
Once you know how they work,
it's just a matter of finding
the right counter spell.
For example...
Bang!
Mystvearn: What
paltry incantations.
Hardly worth the effort
of absorbing and deflecting.
I know they're
nothing special.
I'll definitely
never beat you with 'em.
Good thing I'm only playing
the distraction, right?
Maam! Do it!
[roaring]
Here goes nothing...
Refractor Fist!
She did it!
Oh no!
W-Wha...
[pained yell]
No, Maam!
You guys, don't give in!
[amused chuckle]
Maam [thought]:
It doesn't make sense...
There's no way
my Refractor Fist
wouldn't work on something
with a physical body!
[pained cry]
[agonized groan]
Popp [thought]: I can't
breathe... Can't breathe...
Hang on!
Popp: No! Forget
about us. Keep going!
Get to King Vearn
and make it count.
It's all that matters!
Popp [thought]: No...
He was letting up just enough
that we would cry out...
He knew that if Dai heard us,
he would come to our rescue.
[pained cry]
Popp [thought]:
But once Dai gets here,
Mystvearn is going to
get rid of all three of us.
If he does that, it could
cost us the final battle.
Seems my prediction
came true after all.
Popp: No, Dai...
Don't come back here!
I'm begging you, don't!
Mystvearn: [laughing]
Maam [thought]: Hyunckel.
Popp [thought]: Somehow,
he... he survived.
No, wait... It's...
Are you kidding me?
Narrator: "All of us
must fight for the Hero."
Leona's command has
bolstered the party
to risk it all
as they charge toward
the final confrontation...
And right before Mystvearn
can finish off Popp and Maam,
Larhart arrives armed
with the Dark Armor Spear,
rescuing the
pair from their fate.
While the Disciples
catch their breath,
Larhart tells of
his promise to Baran,
and Dai receives a final
message from his father.
See how it all
unfolds next time on
Dragon Quest:
The Adventure of Dai,
"Baran's Last Will".